Adjustments to the serialization page (#243)
AxonIQ/reference-guide: axon-framework/serialization.md

# Serialization

The flow of messages between (micro)services and storage of events requires preparation of the messages through serialization/

> Axon uses the `XStreamSerializer` by default, which in turn [XStream](http://x-stream.github.io/) to serialize into and deserialize from XML.

Author: I think I intended "in turn uses", to not "overuse" the word "use". :-p
On any note, you're right; right now it misses something. I'll take your suggestion, as I believe it works.

XStream is reasonably fast, and the result of serialization is human-readable.
This makes it quite useful for logging and debugging purposes.

The `XStreamSerializer` allows further customization if that's required.

> You can, for example, define aliases it should use for specific packages, classes, or even fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can, for example, define aliases for specific packages, classes, or even fields.
```

> Besides being an excellent way to shorten potentially long names, you can also use aliases when class definitions of the serialized objects change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to being an excellent way to shorten potentially long names, you can also use aliases when class definitions of the serialized objects change.
```

For more information about aliases, visit the [XStream website](http://x-stream.github.io/).

> Next to that, Axon also provides the `JacksonSerializer`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, Axon provides the `JacksonSerializer`. 
```

> Next to the `XStreamSerializer`, Axon also provides the `JacksonSerializer`. 

Author: Good idea! :-)

This `Serializer` implementation uses [Jackson](https://github.com/FasterXML/jackson) to serialize objects into and deserialize from JSON.
It produces a more compact serialized form, while requiring those classes to stick to Jackson's conventions \(or configuration\).
The compact format makes it ideal for events, commands, and queries, as it minimizes the storage space and package size.

You may also implement your own serializer simply by creating a class that implements `Serializer` and setting it within Axon's configuration for the desired infrastructure components.

## Serializer Implementations

> `Serializers` come in several flavors in the Axon Framework and are used for a variety of subjects. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Serializers` come in several flavors in Axon Framework and are used for various things. 
```

   These objects are generally not shared between different applications, and most of these classes aren't expected to have some of the getters and setters that are, for example, typically required by Jackson based serializers.

>    A flexible, general purpose serializer like [XStream](http://x-stream.github.io/) is quite suited for this purpose.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   A flexible, general-purpose serializer like [XStream](http://x-stream.github.io/) is quite ideal for this purpose.
```
Sorry, I know I'm fixing text that was not modified. This is just a suggestion. :)

Author: No worries, Sara! The adjustment sounds very fair to me. Even if this isn't modified in this PR, we can still make it so.

By default, all three `Serializer` flavors are set to use the `XStreamSerializer`, which internally uses [XStream](http://x-stream.github.io/) to serialize objects to an XML format. 

> XML is a verbose format to serialize to, but XStream has the major benefit of being able to serialize virtually anything.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
XML is verbose, but XStream has the major benefit of being able to serialize virtually anything.
```

> *XStream and JDK 17*
> 
> Although XStream can "serialize virtually anything," more recent versions of the JDK impede its flexibility.
> This predicament comes down to XStream's reflective approach to finding out how to de-/serialize *any* object, which has become problematic with Java's intent to secure its internals.
> Hence, if you're using JDK 17, the chances are that objects (e.g., your sagas) intended for serialization require additional configuration.
> 

> > On some occasions setting XStream's security settings is sufficient.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> On some occasions setting XStream's security is sufficient.
```

> Other times you will have to introduce custom [`Converters`](https://x-stream.github.io/converters.html) to de-/serialize specific types.

> > If you prefer not to deal with specific XStream settings, it might be a good step to use the `JacksonSerializer` throughout your Axon application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> If you prefer not to deal with specific XStream settings, it might be better to use the `JacksonSerializer` throughout your Axon application.
```

> XMLs verbosity is typically fine when storing tokens, sagas or snapshots, but for messages \(and specifically events\) XML might prove to cost too much due to its serialized size. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
XML's verbosity is typically fine when storing tokens, sagas, or snapshots, but for messages \(and specifically events\) XML might cost too much due to its serialized size. 
```

### Different serializer for events

> When using event sourcing, serialized events can stick around for a long time. Therefore, consider the format to which they are serialized carefully. Consider configuring a separate serializer for events, carefully optimizing for the way they are stored. The JSON format generated by Jackson is generally more suitable for the long term than XStream's XML format. For more information on how to configure your`EventSerializer` to something different, check out the documentation about [Serializers](serialization.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using event sourcing, serialized events can stick around for a long time. Therefore, consider the format to which they are serialized, carefully. Consider configuring a separate serializer for events, carefully optimized for the way they are stored. The JSON format generated by Jackson is generally more suitable for the long term than XStream's XML format. For more information on how to configure your`EventSerializer` to something different, check out the documentation about [Serializers](serialization.md).
```

    }
}
```

### ContentTypeConverters

An [upcaster](events/event-versioning.md#event-upcasting) works on a given content type \(e.g. dom4j Document\). 
To provide extra flexibility between upcasters, content types between chained upcasters may vary. 

> Axon will try to convert between the content types automatically by using `ContentTypeConverter`s. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Axon will try to convert between the content types automatically by using `ContentTypeConverter`. 
```
I know you meant it to be plural but I don't think we'd need the "'s"  for it. I'll change the rest as well, but please change back if you feel strongly about it. :)

It will search for the shortest path from type `x` to type `y`, perform the conversion and pass the converted value into the requested upcaster. 
For performance reasons, conversion will only be performed if the `canUpcast` method on the receiving upcaster yields true.

> The `ContentTypeConverter`s may depend on the type of serializer used. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ContentTypeConverter` may depend on the type of serializer used. 
```
